it is crucial to your success with
options to understand how options are
priced and how the pricing is affected
the price of an option consists of two
parts intrinsic value and extrinsic
value together they make up an options
price let's start with the intrinsic
value to understand this it is important
to understand the strike prices of an
option in my last video lesson we
discussed the different strike prices as
you can see the call option is in the
money or ICM when the strike price is
below the trading price of the
underlying the call option is at the
money or ATM when it's strike price is
the underlying straighting price or at
least is around it and it is out of the
money when the strike price of the call
option is above the trading price of the
underlying and all of this is the other
way around for productions if a
production strike price is below the
underlying trading price it is out of
the money and the production is in the
money if it's strike price is above the
trading price of the underlying if you
understand this it won't be too hard to
understand the intrinsic value either
intrinsic value basically is the amount
that an option is in the money to
simplify this I will give you some
examples the underlying of the call
option is trading at $100 therefore the
options with the strike prices from 95
to 99 are all in the money the call
option with the strike price of $95 is
$5 below the underlying trading price
and is therefore $5 in the money this
means that the intrinsic value of this
call option is $5 after the same
principal the call option with the $96
strike price is $4 in their money
because $96 is $4 below the trading
price of the underlying
furthermore the cool option with the
strike price of ninety seven dollars has
an intrinsic value of three dollars the
call option with a ninety eight dollar
strike price as two dollars of intrinsic
value and so on as you may have noticed
by now not all options are in the money
for example the cool option with a
strike price of 102 dollars is out of
the money and thus not in the money this
means that it is zero dollars in the
money and therefore has no intrinsic
value at all so not all options have
intrinsic value only the ones that are
in the money if in the money options had
no intrinsic value it would allow for
easy arbitrage opportunities let's say
cool option with the strike price of $95
has no intrinsic value and its
underlying is trading for $100 this
would mean that you could buy a call
option very cheap exercise it buy the
shares for $95 and immediately sell them
again at $100 this would be a more or
less risk free trade and this is the
reason why intrinsic value exists for in
the money options but now let's move on
to extrinsic value extrinsic value is
nothing else but the remaining value of
an option this is the value of an option
that's not intrinsic the extrinsic value
is affected by different factors the two
main factors are volatility and time
volatility is a huge factor regarding
option pricing the reason for that being
if there's more volatility in the market
there are more opportunities to make
money especially with options therefore
option prices tend to be higher in terms
of high volatility and lower in terms of
low volatility the next big factor
defining the extrinsic value of an
option is time left to expiration
logically if you have more time you have
a higher chance to be right
money therefore options with a lot of
time left until expiration are more
expensive than option 2 with only little
time left furthermore there are few
minor factors that may affect the
extrinsic value of not gene but these
are not so important for now so summed
up the intrinsic value plus the
extrinsic value equal the options price
but note that out of the money options
do not have intrinsic value it's some
very deep in the money options don't
have extrinsic value either
additionally it is important to
understand that option prices are not
constant they change all the time for
example if the price of the underlying
changes with intrinsic value changes as
well or if some days pass there's less
time left onto the expiration and
therefore the extrinsic value of option
can become smaller in addition to that
volatility can also change create more
opportunities and make option prices
rise now let us get into option grease
grease measured changes in the options
price that a cure of the changes in the
different factors that define intrinsic
and extrinsic value I will now present
you the most important option Greeks to
explain them easily I will use an
example and every Greek for all these
examples we can assume that the
underlying stock ABC is trading at $100
and the call option is initially worth
$10 one of the most commonly used
options reeks is the Greek Delta Delta
is the amount which the option price is
expected to move after $1 move in the
underlying price for this example we
will assume that the Delta for our
option is 0.5 the Delta of 0.5 under
call option would mean that if the
underlying price would move $1 to the
upside the call option would be worth
zero point five dollars more
was before so the price of the
underlying would rise to one hundred and
one dollars and everything else stayed
the same the price of the call option
would be worth ten point five dollars if
the underlying price would fall by a
dollar the options price would again
change by 0.5 dollars so it would then
be worth nine point five dollars
note that Delta is not constant together
with the price of the underlying it is
changing all the time
the next essential option read that I
want to present is gamma gamma measures
a change of Delta after one dollar wide
move in the underlying for this example
we will say that the gamma for our call
option is zero point one this would mean
that for every one dollar move in the
underlying Delta changes by 0.1 I will
try to show this with an example our
underlying is ABC needs trading for one
hundred and one dollar the option is
worth ten point five dollars and the
Delta for that option is 0.5 so the
underlying now moves up by one dollar
the gamma of 0.1 will mean that Delta
will change by 0.1 so the new Delta
would be zero point six this means if
ABC is trading at 102 dollars the option
will be worth eleven point one dollars
after one dollar move in the underlining
the options price will change by the
Delta the Delta will change by the gamma
so if ABC will trade for one hundred and
three dollars the Delta would again
changed by Wazir 0.1 so the new Delta
would be zero point seven and therefore
the new option price would be eleven
point eight dollars this of course also
works to the downside let's say ABC is
now trading for 99 dollars
the option is worth nine point five
dollars and the Delta
0.5 if ABC drops by $1 the Delta would
again change by 0.1 so the new Delta
would be 0.4 meaning that the new option
price would be nine point by one dollar
after another $1 drop in ABC the new
Delta would be 0.3 leading to a eight
point eight dollar option price as you
may have noticed by now this can work in
your favor or against you either your
earn more and more and lose less and
less on every $1 white move or your earn
less and less and lose more and more but
more on that later these two Greeks both
are linked to the price of the
underlying and thus measure the
intrinsic factor of course there are
also objects that measure price changes
from the extrinsic factors these are the
ones I want to discuss now let's begin
with Vega Vega measures price changes in
the option of the 1% change in
volatility for this example our Vega is
0.4 if our option initially would trade
for $10 and volatility were increased by
1% the option would then trade for 10.4
dollars
the next option Greek is theta theta is
basically time decay it measures how
much money is gained or lost after every
day so a theta of minus 0.1 would mean
that an option would lose 0.1 dollars
every day
additionally there are some other less
important Greeks like row row measures
the change in the options price after 1%
change in interest rates but this can be
disregarded as long as you don't plan on
trading any very long term options as
are also known as leaps
option Greeks are very important when
trading options you should always be
aware aware of them and see how they
affect your positions the common analogy
is that an option Greek is just as
important to trading as a dashboard and
steering wheel is to drive just like I
mentioned earlier option weaves can
either work in your favor or against you
the option price can either increase or
decrease of the changes in certain
sectors that is why I created this
helpful table displaying the effect of
factors on different option positions
the plus means that this option Greek
will be positive for the position and
the minus means that the Greek will be
negative for the position here we can
focus on Percy that theta or time decay
works in favor of short puts and course
but it works against long puts and cause
so long strategies to constantly lose
some of their value every day and short
positions to gain some value
additionally you can see that when you
have a long coil Delta will be positive
this also holds true for gamma this
means that the more the price of the
underlying increases the more you gain
on every $1 increase positive Vega means
that an increase in volatility is
profitable tables like these can help
you keep track of different option
Greeks
to download it and learn more about
options you can visit trade options with
me calm but for now thanks for watching